docs/demo: Add MeshRootCertificate information to docs (#448)
openservicemesh/osm-docs: content/en/docs/guides/certificate_management/certificate-rotation.md

---
title: "Root Certificate Rotation"
description: "Rotating the root certificate in OSM"
type: docs
weight: 10
---

# Root Certificate Rotation

> The Mesh root certificate is a long lived certificate which is used by OSM to issue leaf certificates to the services in the Mesh enabling mTLS. This document will be focused on the steps to rotate a certificate, to learn more about OSM's certificates in OSM read about OSM's [Certificate provider options](certificates.md).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mesh root certificate is a long-lived certificate that is used by OSM to issue leaf certificates to services in the mesh thereby enabling mTLS. This document focuses on the steps to rotate a certificate, to learn more about OSM's certificates see [Certificate Provider Options](certificates.md).  
```

> The certificate can be rotated either through a [manual process](#manual-rotation) or with OSM 1.3 we have introduced a preview feature to help [automate rotation](#certificate-rotation-with-meshrootcertificate) using a new API called the `MeshRootCertificate`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certificate can be rotated either through a [manual process](#manual-rotation) or with OSM v1.3 we have introduced a preview feature to help [automate rotation](#certificate-rotation-with-meshrootcertificate) using a new API called the `MeshRootCertificate`.  
```

### Manual Root Certificate Rotation

#### Tresor

> >  WARNING: Rotating root certificates will incur downtime between any services as they transition their mTLS certs from one issuer to the next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  WARNING: Rotating root certificates will incur downtime between any services as they transition their mTLS certificate from one issuer to the next.
```

> The self-signed root certificate, which is created via the Tresor package within OSM, will expire in a decade. To rotate the root cert, the following steps should be followed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The self-signed root certificate, which is created via the Tresor package within OSM, will expire in a decade. To rotate the root certificate, the following steps should be followed:
```

> 1. Delete the `osm-ca-bundle` certificate in the osm namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete the `osm-ca-bundle` certificate in the OSM namespace
```

   ```console
   export osm_namespace=osm-system # Replace osm-system with the namespace where OSM is installed
   kubectl delete secret osm-ca-bundle -n $osm_namespace
   ```

2. Restart the control plane components
   ```console
   kubectl rollout restart deploy osm-controller -n $osm_namespace
   kubectl rollout restart deploy osm-injector -n $osm_namespace
   kubectl rollout restart deploy osm-bootstrap -n $osm_namespace
   ```

When the components gets re-deployed, you should be able to eventually see the new `osm-ca-bundle` secret in `$osm_namespace`:

```console
kubectl get secrets -n $osm_namespace
```

```
NAME                           TYPE                                  DATA   AGE
osm-ca-bundle                  Opaque                                3      74m
```

The new expiration date can be found with the following command:

```console
kubectl get secret -n $osm_namespace $osm_ca_bundle -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' |
    base64 -d |
    openssl x509 -noout -dates
```

> For the Envoy service and validation certificates to be rotated the data plane components must restarted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Envoy services and validation certificates to be rotated the data plane components must be restarted.
```

#### Other certificate providers

> For certificate providers other than Tresor, the process of rotating the root certificate will be different. For Hashicorp Vault and cert-manager.io, users will need to rotate the root certificate themselves outside of OSM.

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
The process of rotating the root certificate will be different for certificate providers other than Tresor. For Hashicorp Vault and cert-manager.io, users will need to rotate the root certificate themselves outside of OSM.
```

### Certificate Rotation with MeshRootCertificate

> >  WARNING:  This feature is currently in preview and requires the `EnableMeshRootCertificate` feature flag enabled in the MeshConfig.  

Reviewer: For consistency across docs
```suggestion
>  Warning:  This feature is currently in preview and requires the `EnableMeshRootCertificate` feature flag enabled in the MeshConfig.  
```

> New in version 1.3, is the `MeshRootCertificate`. This custom resource can be enabled by using the `EnableMeshRootCertificate` feature flag when deploying OSM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MeshRootCertificate` is introduced in OSM v1.3. This custom resource can be enabled by using the `EnableMeshRootCertificate` feature flag when deploying OSM.
```

```console
osm install --set="osm.featureFlags.enableMeshRootCertificate=true"
```

> > Important Note: If OSM has been installed with `EnableMeshRootCertificate` disabled, and feature flag is then enabled in the MeshConfig the control plane components must be restarted in order to pick up on the flag and begin using the `MeshRootCertificate` for certificate management. There will be no change in the Root Certificate but it will now be managed the the `MeshRootCertificate` for future management. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Important: If OSM is installed with `EnableMeshRootCertificate` disabled, but the feature flag is then later enabled in the MeshConfig, the control plane components must be restarted. This allows the flag to be picked up and begin using the `MeshRootCertificate` for certificate management. There will be no change in the root certificate, but it will now be managed by the `MeshRootCertificate` . 
```

### MeshRootCertificate

> Each `MeshRootCertificate` represents a certificate that can be used in the Mesh. At most there can be only two `MeshRootCertificate`'s that are used in the mesh at a given time and there must always be one `MeshRootCertificate` in the **active** `role`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each `MeshRootCertificate` represents a certificate that can be used in the mesh. There can be only two `MeshRootCertificate`'s that are used in the mesh at a given time and there must always be one `MeshRootCertificate` in the **active** `role`.
```

> The following are the validate values for a `MeshRootCertificate` `role`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are the possible `MeshRootCertificate role`s:
```

> - `active`: The certificate is used to sign **and** validate certificates in the mesh. There must always be one certificate with active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `active`: The certificate is used to sign **and** validate certificates in the mesh. There must always be one active certificate.
```

> - `passive`: The certificate is used to validate certificates in the mesh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `passive`: The certificate is used to validate certificates in the mesh.
```

- `inactive`: The certificate is not used in the mesh.

> The following is an example of the `MeshRootCertificate` that will be created. The Provider option can be `tresor`, `certManager`, or `vault`.  Before using the providers for [CertManager](certificates.md#using-cert-manager) or [Vault](certificates.md#using-hashicorp-vault), additional pre-configuration steps are required.  Refer to the [API documentation](#TODO) for how to configure the `MeshRootCertificate` fields for each provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of the `MeshRootCertificate` that will be created. The `provider` field can be `tresor`, `certManager`, or `vault`.  Before using the providers for [CertManager](certificates.md#using-cert-manager) or [Vault](certificates.md#using-hashicorp-vault), additional pre-configuration steps are required.  Refer to the [API documentation](#TODO) on how to configure the `MeshRootCertificate` fields for each provider.
```

Run `kubectl get meshrootcertificate` to see the default `MeshRootCertificate`:

```yaml
apiVersion: config.openservicemesh.io/v1alpha2
kind: MeshRootCertificate
metadata:
  name: osm-mesh-root-certificate
  namespace: osm-system
spec:
  role: active
  provider:
    tresor:
      ca:
        secretRef:
          name: osm-ca-bundle
          namespace: osm-system
  spiffeEnabled: false
  trustDomain: cluster.local
```

> The only field that can be modified after initial creation is the `role` field.  Other fields will need change by creating a new MeshRootCertificate and go through the [rotation process](#meshrootcertificate-rotation). On a new install, the initial `MeshRootCertificate` will be created by OSM and the certificate will be in the **active** `role`. Fields such as `trustDomain` and `spiffeEnabled` can be configured by passing options to the install command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only field that can be modified after initial creation is the `role` field.  Other fields will need to be changed by creating a new MeshRootCertificate and going through the [rotation process](#meshrootcertificate-rotation). On a new install, the initial `MeshRootCertificate` will be created by OSM and the certificate will be in the **active** `role`. Fields such as `trustDomain` and `spiffeEnabled` can be configured by passing options to the install command:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

> osm install --set="osm.featureFlags.enableSPIFFE=true --set"osm.trustDomain=cluster.example"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
osm install --set="osm.featureFlags.enableSPIFFE=true --set="osm.trustDomain=cluster.example"
```

```

### MeshRootCertificate Rotation

To rotate the root certificate a mesh, a second `MeshRootCertificate` (MRC) will be created.  The second `MeshRootCertificate` will be created in a `passive` role and rotated into the `active` role. Once the new certificate is `active`, the old certificate will be moved to the `passive` role then finally `inactive`.  

The full process for rotating the certificate is:

> | Step  |  original MRC(1) role   |  new MRC(2) role    | Signing MRC  | Validating MRC |

Reviewer: There are some parts of the table that uses `mcr` instead of `mrc`

Author: fixed!

| ----- | ----------------------- | ------------------- | ------------ | -------------- |

> | 1     | active                  | (not created)       | mrc1         | mcr1           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1     | active                  | (not created)       | mrc1         | mrc1           |
```

| 2     | active                  | passive             | mcr1         | mcr1 and mrc2  |
| 3     | active                  | active              | mrc1 or mrc2 | mcr1 and mrc2  |
| 4     | passive                 | active              | mcr2         | mcr1 and mrc2  |
| 5     | inactive                | active              | mcr2         | mcr2           |
| 5     | (deleted)               | active              | mcr2         | mcr2           |

> Each step requires time for the certificate information to propagated to all the components in the mesh. The amount of time required will depend on your mesh. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each step requires time for the certificate information to be propagated to all the components in the mesh. The amount of time required will depend on your mesh. 
```

> Between each step to verify a certificate was been propagated you can review the logs in osm-controller and optionally run the follow commands. When both certificates are in use, then you will see two certificates from the following commands, otherwise you will see the `active` certificate.  We are working on improving this experience as we move the `MeshRootCertificate` feature out of preview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify if a certificate has been propagated, you can review the OSM controller logs and optionally run the following commands. If both certificates are in use, then you will see two certificates from the following commands, otherwise you will see the `active` certificate.  

We are working on improving this experience as we move the `MeshRootCertificate` feature out of preview.
```

> Example commands:

Reviewer: I think we should wrap these commands in code blocks to fix the formatting in the https://deploy-preview-448--osm-docs.netlify.app/docs/demos/certificate_rotation/

Author: updated!

- logs:
  - `kubectl logs osm-controller-67f9fd585d-ccr4b | grep "in progress root certificate rotation"`
- osm validation and mutating webhooks:
  - `kubectl get validatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io osm-validator-mesh-osm -ojson | jq -r '.webhooks[] | .clientConfig.caBundle' | base64 --decode`
  - `kubectl get mutatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io osm-validator-mesh-osm -ojson | jq -r '.webhooks[] | .clientConfig.caBundle' | base64 --decode`
- service certs were updated: 
  - `osm proxy get config_dump bookbuyer-b8c7bc4d9-zpm8m -n bookbuyer | jq -r '.configs[] | select(."@type"=="type.googleapis.com/envoy.admin.v3.SecretsConfigDump") | .dynamic_active_secrets[] | select(.name == "root-cert-for-mtls-outbound:bookstore/bookstore").secret.validation_context.trusted_ca.inline_bytes' | base64 -d`
- xds certs:
  - `osm proxy get config_dump bookbuyer-b8c7bc4d9-zpm8m -n bookbuyer | jq -r '.configs[] | select(."@type"=="type.googleapis.com/envoy.admin.v3.SecretsConfigDump") | .dynamic_active_secrets[] | select(.name == "validation_context_sds").secret.validation_context.trusted_ca.inline_bytes' | base64 -d`

> There is an experimental cli command that can automate this process using a time based method. Check out the [certificate rotation demo](../../demos/certificate_rotation.md) for more information. Please provide feedback through the [OSM github repository](https://github.com/openservicemesh/osm) on the rotation process to help improve the experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is an experimental CLI command that can automate this process using a time-based method. Check out the [certificate rotation demo](../../demos/certificate_rotation.md) for more information. Please provide feedback through the [OSM GitHub repository](https://github.com/openservicemesh/osm) on the rotation process to help improve the experience.
```

#### Rotating with OSM's Tresor certificate

> Tresor requires no additional configuration to rotate the certificates.  Create a second `MeshRootCertificate` and move it through the process above.

Reviewer: Can you add a link to the process?

#### Rotating with Hashicorp Vault

> Root Rotation for Hashicorp Vault requires Vault version  1.11.  Learn how to rotate a root certificate in Vault through the [Hashicorp documentation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/vault/pki-engine#step-7-rotate-root-ca).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Root rotation for Hashicorp Vault requires Vault version 1.11.  Learn how to rotate a root certificate in Vault through the [Hashicorp documentation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/vault/pki-engine#step-7-rotate-root-ca).
```

> Once the Root certificate is rotated in Hashicorp you can configure a `MeshRootCertificate`, then move it through the rotation process:

Reviewer: Also add link to the process
```suggestion
Once the root certificate is rotated in Hashicorp you can configure a `MeshRootCertificate`, then move it through the rotation process:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: config.openservicemesh.io/v1alpha2
kind: MeshRootCertificate
metadata:
  name: osm-mesh-root-certificate-2
  namespace: osm-system
spec:
  role: passive
  provider:
    vault:
      host: vault.osm-system.svc.cluster.local
      port: 8200
      protocol: http
      role: <name of new Vault role>
      token:
        secretKeyRef:
          key: "osm-key"
          name: "osm-vault-token"
          namespace: osm-system
  spiffeEnabled: false
  trustDomain: cluster.local
```

> #### Rotating withing cert-manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Rotating with cert-manager
```

> Create a new issuer following the [cert-manager](https://release-v1-2.docs.openservicemesh.io/docs/guides/certificates/#configure-cert-manger-for-osm-signing). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new issuer following the [cert-manager documentation](https://release-v1-2.docs.openservicemesh.io/docs/guides/certificates/#configure-cert-manger-for-osm-signing). 
```

> Once you have a new issuer you can configure a  `MeshRootCertificate` with the issuer information, then move it through the rotation process:

Reviewer: link to the rotation process
```suggestion
Once you have a new issuer you can configure a `MeshRootCertificate` with the issuer information, then move it through the rotation process:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

---
title: "Root Certificate Rotation"
description: "Rotating the root certificate in OSM"
type: docs
weight: 10
---

# Root Certificate Rotation

> The mesh root certificate is a long-lived certificate that is used by OSM to issue leaf certificates to services in the mesh thereby enabling mTLS. This document focuses on the steps to rotate a certificate, to learn more about OSM's certificates see [Certificate Provider Options](certificates.md).  

Reviewer 2: I think this might lead me to think the MRC is only used for service certificates in the mesh. I think it also might be helpful to distinguish between the MRC and a certificate. The MRC references a certificate or indicates how to use the root certificate. It also contains other certificate settings.

Author: ```suggestion
The mesh's root certificate is a long-lived certificate that is used by OSM to issue leaf certificates to services in the mesh thereby enabling mTLS. This document focuses on the steps to rotate a certificate, to learn more about OSM's certificates see [Certificate Provider Options](certificates.md).  
```

The intent of this paragraph was to root certificate not the MRC.  Would a change like the above make that clearer or should I make some more changes?

> The Mesh's Root certificate is a long-lived certificate that is used by OSM to issue leaf certificates to services in the mesh thereby enabling mTLS. This document focuses on the steps to rotate a certificate, to learn more about OSM's certificates see [Certificate Provider Options](certificates.md).  

Reviewer: Question, the Mesh's root certificate is meant to be the root certificate that the mesh is using? And not specifically related to MeshRootCertificate?

If so, then I think it should be 
```suggestion
The mesh's root certificate is a long-lived certificate that is used by OSM to issue leaf certificates to services in the mesh thereby enabling mTLS. This document focuses on the steps to rotate a certificate, to learn more about OSM's certificates see [Certificate Provider Options](certificates.md).  
```

Reviewer: Also commented on Jackie's comment for this, maybe to make it clearer that it's the root cert, it could be "The root certificate of the mesh"

> The certificate can be rotated either through a [manual process](#manual-rotation) or with OSM v1.3 we have introduced a preview feature to help [automate rotation](#certificate-rotation-with-meshrootcertificate) using a new API called the `MeshRootCertificate`.  

Reviewer 2: Should we emphasize that this resource was introduced to help minimize downtime?

Author: good suggestion, updated

> The certificate can be rotated either through a [manual process](#manual-rotation) or with OSM v1.3 we have introduced a preview feature to help [automate rotation](#certificate-rotation-with-meshrootcertificate) using a new API called the `MeshRootCertificate`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The certificate can be rotated either through a [manual process](#manual-root-certificate-rotation) or with OSM v1.3 we have introduced a preview feature to help [automate rotation](#certificate-rotation-with-meshrootcertificate) using a new API called the `MeshRootCertificate`.  
```

> The certificate can be rotated either through a [manual process](#manual-root-certificate-rotation) or with OSM v1.3 we have introduced a preview feature to help [automate rotation](#certificate-rotation-with-meshrootcertificate) and minimize downtime using a new API called the `MeshRootCertificate`.  

Reviewer: We haven't released v1.3 yet, should the PR keep the `do-not-merge` label until we've released it?
Or we could remove the reference to it for now and add it when we've released?

Author: I don't think merging this goes anywhere so it would be safe to merge.  A docs release needs to happen before it is published anywhere.  

I am not sure what the protocol is here, I think I saw 1.2 mentioned like this in other docs but not sure what should happen here

Reviewer 2: As long as we aren't backporting this docs change to v1.2 I think we are good to merge this.

### Manual Root Certificate Rotation

> #### Tresor

Reviewer: May just be me but I got confused with the headings, maybe it could be like
Rotating with Tresor
Rotating with Other Certificate Providers
Rotating with MeshRootCertificate

   kubectl rollout restart deploy osm-bootstrap -n $osm_namespace
   ```

When the components gets re-deployed, you should be able to eventually see the new `osm-ca-bundle` secret in `$osm_namespace`:

```console
kubectl get secrets -n $osm_namespace
```

```
NAME                           TYPE                                  DATA   AGE
osm-ca-bundle                  Opaque                                3      74m
```

The new expiration date can be found with the following command:

```console
kubectl get secret -n $osm_namespace $osm_ca_bundle -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' |
    base64 -d |
    openssl x509 -noout -dates
```

For Envoy services and validation certificates to be rotated the data plane components must be restarted.

#### Other certificate providers
The process of rotating the root certificate will be different for certificate providers other than Tresor. For Hashicorp Vault and cert-manager.io, users will need to rotate the root certificate themselves outside of OSM.

### Certificate Rotation with MeshRootCertificate

>  WARNING:  This feature is currently in preview and requires the `EnableMeshRootCertificate` feature flag enabled in the MeshConfig.  

> The `MeshRootCertificate` is introduced in OSM v1.3. This custom resource can be enabled by using the `EnableMeshRootCertificate` feature flag when deploying OSM.

Reviewer: Marking additional reference to v1.3

```console
osm install --set="osm.featureFlags.enableMeshRootCertificate=true"
```

> Important: If OSM is installed with `EnableMeshRootCertificate` disabled, but the feature flag is then later enabled in the MeshConfig, the control plane components must be restarted. This allows the flag to be picked up and begin using the `MeshRootCertificate` for certificate management. There will be no change in the root certificate, but it will now be managed by the `MeshRootCertificate`. 

> ### MeshRootCertificate

Reviewer: I think this section should actually be in a separate doc that explains MeshRootCertificate because I think certificate-rotation.md is mainly focused on how to do the rotation given each certificate provider or with MRC

Each `MeshRootCertificate` represents a certificate that can be used in the mesh. There can be only two `MeshRootCertificate`'s that are used in the mesh at a given time and there must always be one `MeshRootCertificate` in the **active** `role`.

> The following are the possible `MeshRootCertificate role`s:

Reviewer: This looks awkward because the "s" ends up being appended to the `MeshRootCertificate role`, we could rewrite it to something like 
The `MeshRootCertificate role` has the following options:

> The following are the possible `MeshRootCertificate role`s:

Author: ```suggestion
The MeshRootCertificate role has the following options:
```

- `active`: The certificate is used to sign **and** validate certificates in the mesh. There must always be one active certificate.
- `passive`: The certificate is used to validate certificates in the mesh.
- `inactive`: The certificate is not used in the mesh.

> The following is an example of the `MeshRootCertificate` that will be created. The `provider` field can be `tresor`, `certManager`, or `vault`.  Before using the providers for [CertManager](certificates.md#using-cert-manager) or [Vault](certificates.md#using-hashicorp-vault), additional pre-configuration steps are required.  Refer to the [API documentation](#TODO) on how to configure the `MeshRootCertificate` fields for each provider.

Reviewer: I think this part should be put after the yaml so the user can see what the yaml looks like first
"The `provider` field can be `tresor`, `certManager`, or `vault`.  Before using the providers for [CertManager](certificates.md#using-cert-manager) or [Vault](certificates.md#using-hashicorp-vault), additional pre-configuration steps are required.  Refer to the [API documentation](#TODO) on how to configure the `MeshRootCertificate` fields for each provider."

Run `kubectl get meshrootcertificate` to see the default `MeshRootCertificate`:

```yaml
apiVersion: config.openservicemesh.io/v1alpha2
kind: MeshRootCertificate
metadata:
  name: osm-mesh-root-certificate
  namespace: osm-system  # Replace osm-system with the namespace where OSM is installed
spec:
  role: active
  provider:
    tresor:
      ca:
        secretRef:
          name: osm-ca-bundle
          namespace: osm-system  # Replace osm-system with the namespace where OSM is installed
  spiffeEnabled: false
  trustDomain: cluster.local
```

The only field that can be modified after initial creation is the `role` field.  Other fields will need to be changed by creating a new MeshRootCertificate and going through the [rotation process](#meshrootcertificate-rotation). On a new install, the initial `MeshRootCertificate` will be created by OSM and the certificate will be in the **active** `role`. Fields such as `trustDomain` and `spiffeEnabled` can be configured by passing options to the install command:

```bash
osm install --set="osm.featureFlags.enableSPIFFE=true --set="osm.trustDomain=cluster.example"
```

### MeshRootCertificate Rotation

> To rotate the root certificate a mesh, a second `MeshRootCertificate` (MRC) will be created.  The second `MeshRootCertificate` will be created in a `passive` role and rotated into the `active` role. Once the new certificate is `active`, the old certificate will be moved to the `passive` role then finally `inactive`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To rotate the root certificate, a second `MeshRootCertificate` (MRC) will be created.  The second `MeshRootCertificate` will be created in a `passive` role and rotated into the `active` role. Once the new certificate is `active`, the old certificate will be moved to the `passive` role then finally `inactive`.  
```

> The full process for rotating the certificate is:

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
Below is a table representing the full process for rotating the certificate:
```

| ----- | ----------------------- | ------------------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| 1     | active                  | (not created)       | mrc1         | mrc1           |
| 2     | active                  | passive             | mrc1         | mrc1 and mrc2  |
| 3     | active                  | active              | mrc1 or mrc2 | mrc1 and mrc2  |
| 4     | passive                 | active              | mrc2         | mrc1 and mrc2  |
| 5     | inactive                | active              | mrc2         | mrc2           |
| 5     | (deleted)               | active              | mrc2         | mrc2           |

Each step requires time for the certificate information to be propagated to all the components in the mesh. The amount of time required will depend on your mesh. 

To verify if a certificate has been propagated, you can review the OSM controller logs and optionally run the following commands. If both certificates are in use, then you will see two certificates from the following commands, otherwise you will see the `active` certificate.  

We are working on improving this experience as we move the `MeshRootCertificate` feature out of preview.

> Example commands:

Reviewer: If possible, can there be example outputs for each command

- logs:
  ```
  kubectl logs osm-controller-67f9fd585d-ccr4b | grep "in progress root certificate rotation"
  ```
- osm validation and mutating webhooks certificates:
  ```
  kubectl get validatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io osm-validator-mesh-osm -ojson | jq -r '.webhooks[] | .clientConfig.caBundle' | base64 --decode
  kubectl get mutatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io osm-validator-mesh-osm -ojson | jq -r '.webhooks[] | .clientConfig.caBundle' | base64 --decode
  ```
- service certificates: 

>   ```osm proxy get config_dump bookbuyer-b8c7bc4d9-zpm8m -n bookbuyer | jq -r '.configs[] | select(."@type"=="type.googleapis.com/envoy.admin.v3.SecretsConfigDump") | .dynamic_active_secrets[] | select(.name == "root-cert-for-mtls-outbound:bookstore/bookstore").secret.validation_context.trusted_ca.inline_bytes' | base64 -d

Reviewer: need a line break after ```

>   ```

Author: ```suggestion
  ```

```

- xds certificates:
  ```
  osm proxy get config_dump bookbuyer-b8c7bc4d9-zpm8m -n bookbuyer | jq -r '.configs[] | select(."@type"=="type.googleapis.com/envoy.admin.v3.SecretsConfigDump") | .dynamic_active_secrets[] | select(.name == "validation_context_sds").secret.validation_context.trusted_ca.inline_bytes' | base64 -d
  ```

There is an experimental CLI command that can automate this process using a time-based method. Check out the [certificate rotation demo](../../demos/certificate_rotation.md) for more information. Please provide feedback through the [OSM GitHub repository](https://github.com/openservicemesh/osm) on the rotation process to help improve the experience.

#### Rotating with OSM's Tresor certificate

Tresor requires no additional configuration to rotate the certificates.  Create a second `MeshRootCertificate` and move it through the [rotation process](#meshrootcertificate-rotation).  OSM will create a secret for the values in `secretRef` and store the certificate there.

#### Rotating with Hashicorp Vault

> Root rotation for Hashicorp Vault requires Vault version 1.11.  Learn how to rotate a root certificate in Vault through the [Hashicorp documentation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/vault/pki-engine#step-7-rotate-root-ca).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Root certificate rotation for Hashicorp Vault requires Vault version 1.11.  Learn how to rotate a root certificate in Vault through the [Hashicorp documentation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/vault/pki-engine#step-7-rotate-root-ca).
```
